# Project--1-RPG-TURN-BASED-BATTLE
Here we will be creating a RPG styled turned based battle system. 


User Stories
1. The game will open up with modal displaying the instructions of the game.
2. After the dialogue has been run, the game will initiate and the music will que.
3. In here you will have control of your 2 heroes that are aiming to defeat the boss.
4. Making turns will alternate between your characters as well as the boss.
5. Be careful as you can only make 1 move per character, for example if you decided to attack
you will not be able to heal or charge.
6. A menu item will only be visible ONCE it is that characters turn
7. The menu will consist of an ATTACK -(Attack the enemy) Magic-(A powerful skill that uses Mana points) -Heal(your character will heal themselves, but you are limited to three uses) Charge- (A great way to restore your mana points)
8. The bottom of the screen will display your character's HP (health points if it reachs 0 they will be inactive) and your character's MP (Mana points needed to use your magic attack , otherwise cannot be activated).
9. You will successfully complete the game if you are able to beat the boss OR lose if he defeats you.
10. A damage counter will be displayed to indicate how much damage has been done to the boss. (He has 2000HP!!!) 
11. At the bottom will display the action that has occured.
12. Enjoy and have fun!

MVP GOALS
1. As a user I will be introduce to an open screen that will display instructions.
2. After reading the instructions I will click out and the game will commence.
3. I want our heroes to start first and be able to make a move before the boss does.
4. I want our action buttons to only appear when it is our turn.
6. I want our characters to be display close to one another and have the boss on the other side.
5. The boss will be able to attack 1 of 2, or even both of my heroes during his turn.
6. I want the game to end only if both of my heroes hp reach 0, or if the boss hp reaches 0.
7. A game over screen will display if we lose, a winning message if we win.
8. I want to be able to display who's turn it is
9. I want to be able to display a damage counter over or next to a character if they were to get hit.
10. I want my characters to appear animated(Use of gifs via spritesheets)
11. I want there to be a small chance of a critical hit.
12. I want to include sound effects for various actions.

Stretch Goals
1. I want to be able to display a health/mana bar(not a number) that will adjust according to our heroes health/mana.
2. I want to be able to animate the attack options and add more than a few skills. (I currently am making a sprite sheet and turining the animations into gifs<-- a lot of fun actually!)
3. I want our characters or boss to turn slightly red and revert back to their normal color after being hit.




The Journey (Bugs, Fixes, Implementations, Expectations)
1. We got a lot down on day 1 which I am very proud of! Started off by creating a hero class and apply properties and values. One little thing that I ran into was that anytime our characters fought or healed it would go past their mininum or maximum values. For example if Clouds max hp is 200, but whenever we heal him, that number go behind his max health! So in order to fix this I did google and found an answer on stack overflow. In their example someone didn't want a number to go beyond 0. I then applied this method to my own function and it worked splendidly! So I made an if statement like this. if(this.health < this.maxHealth) then this.health = this.maxHealth. Definitely a game changer!

2. Today I noticed that after a battle animation, our characters do not return to their idle position yet. I do have some working theories that I want to test out. Going to implement the current players turn and whenever it is not current players turn have them revert back to their idle form. This is also day 2 and I really want to work on the styling of our battle menu a bit more and giving it a hidden status to where it only shows when it is their turn only. We are also testing out Sephiroth( our bosses) animations and going to create a function where he will randomly select one of our heroes to attack. I think I can create a target [array] and have him choose between those at random. Really excited to get started on Day 2!

Update 04/07/22
It's still day 2, but we finally finished class hours. I'm going to take a short break before I continue. I found an image that I am actually really pleased with. We also updated some parameters and are able to get the characters to return back to the idle position after a move. We also implemented turns, where the characters can only make a move on their turn. Also found some cool profile pictures that I will use for the characters. Trying to debug and show our characters damage...but we will find a way. For the rest of the day I want to find better sound effects and test them out. Hopefully we can get everything functional by tomorrow so I can really work on the styling and refacting code @.@

3. Day 3, finally settled on a background image that I really like. Keeping the character models relative so that they can always be placed in the same position no matter screen resolution. Going to work on the responsiveness of the site as well. We do have the chars health and mp being displayed at the bottom and they are responsive as well. We will not show the bosses HP or MP, but we are able to have him make a random move when it is his turn. Goals today are to implement the potions, work on the modal, and use more animations and soundfx. Going to also refact some code and make it look pretty. 

4. Day 5, took off Day 4 to rest and recharge. Today we got the modal to automatically open on load displaying the instructions. Will go ahead and make edits. The game is fully functional now. Will now spend the rest of the time working on css going to be a LOOOONG ride. Will also include various media queries so the game becomes responsive. Earlier we had everything set to position relative, but whenever we are switching different animations(via gifs) everything seems to move out of place a bit so yeah will go ahead and fix that then.

5. Day 6, back to it! Didn't change too much on Day 5, but we will going ahead and develop a new branch to have a play around with the css, so that we won't mess with our original code. Will also be tweaking with more css with the layouts and placements of our characters.
  Had a good play around with the positioning of our characters. Before we had our gifs set to relative. The issue with this is that, everytime a new gif will occur, it would shift everything else making our game look really choppy.
  
6. Day 7 went off without a hitch so we actually merged our development branch into the main. The game is  near 100% of where I had originall envisioned it.
I decided to change the red and blue potions to just heals and charges since I only had one of each healing item. In the future I would like to
implement more magic skills and items into an array and have the user select into to them. Currently I am limited by not having a saving function,
or being able to navigate through multiple pages without having to go to another link.   